# Automated-Event-Extraction-Model-for-Multiple-Linked-Portuguese-Documents
In recent time, machine learning is booming and researchers are trying to use its application to most conceivable cases and such street of the domain is linked documents. Subsequently, this research article talks about event extraction from Portuguese linked documents. The extracted events are manually verified against linguist and it is able to obtain an accuracy of 95.00\%. Besides, with help of ontological structure, extracted events are mapped as a knowledge graph. This knowledge graph represents the name entity and events associated with each document which is accessible through the SPARQL query.  With knowledge graph representation, the process of accessing the linked document in form of question-answer and accessing the information becomes easier.

To develop the SRL Portuguese model, Machine learning algorithms were used and the Universal Dependencies (UD) Portuguese treebank dataset for training and development was used and processed (tagged) manually. This process included converting of Universal POS tags to EAGLES tagset for entire dataset as freeling is only compatible with the EAGLES tagset. For this conversion, Universal Dependencies (UD) (https://universaldependencies.org/tagset-conversion/pt-freeling-uposf.html) was referred. Among 14 categories, the processed development dataset has 580 tags. In this paper, the empathize is on event extraction and knowledge base creation for multiple linked documents.

The evaluation dataset was created by the consortium of the project Agatha with documents from several online sources, aiming to illustrate and evaluate the performance of the developed systems. It is composed of 51 documents with 1221 sentences and 48914 words.
